[Music]
1.8 billion that's how many people on
our planet are currently living without
access to clean drinking water one of
the biggest culprits of this problem is
water pollution luckily there are people
like Ron Viet Anwar setting an example
and taking action to solve this crisis
the twenty six-year-old tan Juan grew up
in the little village of Dada in uttar
pradesh india he spent his childhood
helping his dad who was a farmer like
most people in the area and playing by
lakes and ponds with his friends but
when he was a student at a local
Technical University he noticed that his
favorite childhood hangouts were
starting to disappear while clean water
levels are declining throughout India
the crisis is especially bad in the
remote regions like where tan waar is
from a lot of wetlands were polluted and
becoming dumping grounds instead the
budding environmentalist realized it
wasn't chemical waste but simply garbage
that people threw out without thinking
of the consequences so he decided it was
time to change this and educate people
about the importance of clean water tan
wash started off by giving lessons to
kids from his village who began to feel
like they had to do something about
their dying water sources their new
teacher told them to warn their parents
about the existing problem of pollution
and water conservation sadly this didn't
work at first since the adults in the
village refused to believe that they
could ever run out of water
fortunately tan waar isn't the type of
guy who gives up on what he believes in
he decided that he had to do this on his
own and went from house to house to each
and every resident to explain the
gravity of the issue when it comes to
depleting water resources later he told
the students to come with their parents
every Sunday to a special place where
he'd facilitated discussion and suggest
methods to conserve water the message
finally started to sink in and the
villagers were really starting to grasp
the problem they were facing his effort
was recognized
by the district authorities and these
community meetings were officially
called Jojo pals in 2015
Ranveer and his team of volunteers
students and their parents removed all
the garbage from the first pond not only
did they clean it they also planted some
trees around it later on they invited
the local administration to come and see
the glorious restoration the good news
spread fast and soon enough people from
other villages and districts started to
come to tun waar to ask for help with
restoration of their local lakes thanks
to the efforts of many volunteers and
enthusiasts dozens of lakes and ponds
have been restored throughout India the
most important thing in cleaning these
bodies of water was to prevent further
pollution the activists can't stop
people from dumping waste out of their
homes altogether so once the water has
been cleaned the team digs out a
separate pit with a wooden mesh to
collect garbage they then install a
double filtration system with a filter
made of wooden planks and a patch of
different grasses to prevent bigger and
smaller pieces of garbage from making
their way into the water in the future
volunteers clean these pits and filters
once a week as for smaller waste they've
made an agreement with fish farmers to
raise at least 10,000 slush eating fish
to take care of those finer waste
particles the state authorities then
help Ron Vere set up something called
ground water army organizations in each
district of the state and the young
pioneer is now the coordinator in his
district the organisation's work
together for water conservation in their
areas unfortunately the state can't
provide funds to support this program
so tano are actually travels to
different villages makes info banners
and really gets out there and spreads
the message he still works full-time
from 5:00 a.m. to 2 p.m. six days a week
along with all this water conservation
work in fact he's already had to change
jobs five times to make sure he always
has enough time for what he really cares
about he says he gets motivation from
this hands-on work with villagers that
are
eager to listen and participate Ranveer
also finds it important that they get
involved in the process and don't just
clean one body of water once but work as
a team to maintain it another campaign
the young Indian environmentalist
started is called hashtag selfie with
pod the idea of it
according to Thanh waar himself is to
connect the youth with dying lakes which
are being converted into dumping sites
in a world where social media can really
get a message out there and be a driving
force for change this campaign became an
instant success and thousands of people
worldwide started sharing their pictures
and videos and there are plenty of
others out there like robert anwar who
are working day and night to improve the
ecology of our planet felix Finkbeiner a
21 year old from germany is the founder
of a global youth movement called plant
for the planet it's 75 thousand climate
ambassadors have planted a total of over
15 billion saplings worldwide when he
was just 9 years old the activists got
inspired by Kenyan Nobel Peace Prize
winner and tree planter one Geary month
I think Byner announced he was going to
inspire other kids around the world to
plant 1 million trees in their countries
not exactly everyone believed him back
then but his motto stop talking start
planting took the world by storm
then schools across the globe got
involved and 1 million trees were
planted within the first two years fig
Byner has been invited to speak at the
United Nations and the European
Parliament and his plant for the planet
initiative is now an NGO supported by
the World Wildlife Fund the German
government and other prominent
organizations the young environmentalist
doesn't lack ambition and he since
launched the trillion tree campaign
that's easily the biggest reforestation
project ever its goal is to plant one
trillion trees across the world within
the next 30 years given that our planet
currently has around 3 trillion trees
altogether it's really a super and
Bish's goal and of course a really
eco-friendly one according to the
initiatives founder one trillion trees
could absorb 25% of all co2 emissions
produced by people it would also have a
huge socio-economic impact creating
millions of jobs in the timber industry
worldwide another example of a young
person gaining international fame for
their passionate pursuit of improving
our planet's ecology is Greta
Thunderbird the sixteen year old from
Sweden has found her own way to express
her concern about the dangers of global
climate change she first learned about
the crisis when she was eight years old
the girl was so shocked about how
serious and threatening the issue is
that she decided to take action she
managed to persuade her mom to give up
air travel and her dad to become a
vegetarian and she didn't stop there in
the summer of 2018 when a crazy heat
wave struck northern Europe and caused
forest fires
she took a handmade banner and sat on
the stairs of the Swedish parliament
building all by herself she continues to
do this every single Friday to this day
and while fun Berg was alone at first
her classmates and kids from other
schools have since joined her in the
struggle to raise awareness by now
people from 71 countries in over 700
places have also supported her
initiative her original banner saying
school strike for climate in Swedish has
been translated into tons of different
languages Greta has been invited to
speak at the UN climate change
conference and even met both the French
president and the German Chancellor so a
teenager has been heard given the floor
and most importantly inspired others to
pay attention to what really matters but
it's not like you have to go out and
travel the world meet with presidents or
start your own organization although
these things are great too for those who
can just speaking to your community
perhaps filming some eco documentaries
writing short stories or graphic novels
or physically taking action and cleaning
the waters in your area
there are so many ways to get involved
in the green movement and if you've got
a busy schedule like we all do then
start off with small lifestyle changes
for example watch your water consumption
when you're taking a shower or brushing
your teeth small changes really do add
up in the long run would you personally
want to get involved in some ecological
campaign let me know down in the
comments don't forget to give this video
a like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life